---
layout: post
title: "Zsh... oh my"
date: "2014-10-07"
tags: zsh bash terminal linux
---

When I first started using Linux, I wondered if there is a way to improve the terminal
experience. Z shell or otherwise known as Zsh was among the first things I stumbled upon.

## What is Zsh?

Zsh is a shell (The language we use in a terminal), you may be familiar with bash
witch is the default for most linux distros including Ubuntu. Zsh is also available
for Mac and Windows(if you are up for the chalenge).

## Why zsh?? We already got bash...

Well there are quite a few of reason why zsh is AWSOME! But lets get started with these.

  * Convenience
  * Community
  * Customization

### Convenience

What if whenever you wanted to access a directory all you had to do is write it,
Without having to press `cd ` every time.  
What if you didn't even have to write the whole directory?  
What if you could just write `$ Dow` hit `Tab` , `Enter` and find yourself in the
`Downloads` directory.  
What if you could write `$ Do/M/Bob` hit `Tab` and switch between the
`Downloads/Music/Bob Marley` and `Downloads/Music/Bob Dylan` directories simply by
using the `Tab` key and `Enter`

Well... zsh does all these and a lot more!!  
Hitting `Tab` will auto-complete any command or path if it is the only one available, otherwise
you can chose witch one to use by `Tab` and `Enter` the one you want.
You can use it for auto-completing paths and almost anything else.  
`command --` + `Tab` can be really convenient for seeing the options of a command.

Path replacement, lets say we have these 2 directories
  `/server/www/website1/current/vendor`  
  `/server/www/website2/current/vendor`  
and want to go from the first one to the second,
all we need to do is type <br> `$ cd website1 website2` and we will move to the second directory!<br>
Awesome right?

Another cool thing zsh knows how to do is approximation.
Lets say I've written <br> `$ Downloafs/Books`, `Tab` to the rescue!! Hit it and it will fix your path
to `Downloads/Books`!

### Customization

If you are familiar with bash you probably know about `.bashrc`. It is a file kept in your
user directory, with all your bash customization.

Like bash zsh uses a file called `.zshrc`. But has improved
the most used function of bash, `alias`.

With `alias` you can set a "sortcut" for a command.
In your `.zshrc` you can type something like,  
`alias shortcut = "lengthy_command /really/long/path -option1 --option2"`  
then you can refer to that lengthy command simply by typing `$ shortcut`.

Zsh has improved alias with "extentions". The suffix alias, and the global alias.  
The suffix alias sets a command as default when referring to a file type.  
The global alias sets a "shortcut" you can use anywhere in a command.

So with suffix alias you can 

`alias -s html=chomium` zsh will open any `.html` files with chromium simply
by referring to them like so `$ my/project/index.html`. A good way to use this is putting a terminal text
editor for all your text file types ;) .

The global alias can be also quite useful.You can make an alias you will be able to use anywhere
in an command. You can write it like so in your `.zshrc` , `alias -g PE="--port 1337 --environment test"`.
Now you can use it in a rails server command, `$ rails server PE --pid 54321`.

Another thing you can customize is looks. With zsh you can change the way prompt looks

### Community

There are a lot of great folks who constantly improve zsh!
There are also a lot of great folks who make addons and plugins.

One of the best is [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) its a
framework for zsh, it's full of helpful functions, helpers, plugins, themes and more!
Manny people use zsh just to use [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh)!!
It has useful plugins for [ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) , [git](http://git-scm.com/) and tons more!!
I'd say [oh-my-zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) is essential for zsh.

One plugin I found about recently and really enjoy is
[zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting).
It colors commands and paths with red to warn you when they are wrong. Making it a lot less painful when you are
about to hit `Enter` with an error in the command. Also it uses green for existing commands.
