---
layout: post
title: "The Nature of Reality and why things Are"
date: "2018-07-24 20:43:21 +0200"
---

The nature of reality and why things are? Oww cheez Bill, did'nt you just get a little ahead of yourself? How are you even supposed to answer something like that.
Hmm.. well lets give it a shot.

## Foreword

First a disclaimer, understanding the true nature of reality is not something a mere mortal is supposed, or may I say can wholesomely understand,
I do not claim that whatever conslusions I come up in this article is the absolute truth, I have given a lot of though about reality and the act of existance,
and the views I am going to share with you are the ones that resonated with me the most up till now. They been a reoccuring theme in how I view and
act upon the world. In short these views are what I find most likely to be the nature of reality.

Human beings have attempted to understand the way things work and how they came to be for a long long time. In fact we cannot say with certainty when.
We can assume the first endeavours where in order to get a better understanding of the physical world and how to manipulate it. The use of tools required us to.

***** Religous explanatins, Science

## Breaking the illusion

I will say this upfront, this part will likely make you feel uncomfortable, it might be hard to comprehend and you will surely resist to.
However if we wish to go on, we have to crack open the following concepts or at least challenge them heavily.

You are under the spell of the human condition, I would like to tell you "Don't worry it's not lethal", but I am afraid that would be a false claim.
But let's not get too melodramatic. The human condition is an enormous subject, and frankly out of scope for this article, but in order to move forward we need
to understand this one thing about it.

The human condition has turned you into a reality filter. That's right you are a filter.
You have been designed and condition to filter all but the most essential of information, essential for your survival that is.
And from a point of evolution that makes absolute sense, surviving is hard, and even more so when you are fluded by irrelevant information that can
confuse or misguide you. That is why your sensory system is unable to perceive or will ignore the vast majority of reality.
With this understanding we can begin to think about the stuff we are actually not able to be aware of naturally.

So lets start tearing apart some construction that where fitted for our human condition.

Time does not exist! Yep, I just said that, time is an illusion. You might not be hearing this the first time in fact.
Lets explore this and consider if and why it would make sense.
First lets examine how we experience and what do we know about and this so called time.


## The three pilars

Form, Distribution, Connection. Don't take these words too literarly,   

## But how?
